# CS-340-CRUD-Python-API-

- How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

I Usually write programs and separate them into smaller easier to discern parts, such as in C++ you can have headers and C++ files. By making sure most things are modular, changing one aspect of a program becomes easier. In the case of this project, I made what is effectively an API for a database, and it is meant to be adaptable for not just animal shelters but also any other type of database. The widgets, filtering, sorting, and charts really show how I could expand on this specific module for future use.

- How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

What I did first was look at the requirements to establish what needs to be solved. The first thing requested was a way to create/read to a specific database, so I made a proof of concept with hard-coded values first to make sure it worked. After that, I made sure the code was modular, the constructor for the API requires a username and password for example, so that you don't have to manually edit it in the CRUD file. My approach involved thinking about the requirements, verifying the data, trying to insert the data or query the data, and printing out an error if this fails. 

- What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer Scientists can do many different things based on their expertise, one of the main things they do is create systems that others can use/enjoy. You could imagine setting up this CRUD interface at a company and having an employee pull it up at the front desk to check for specific requirements. This type of work is important because it lowers the barrier to entry for entry-level positions, as a front desk employee probably doesn't know how to write advanced queries in MongoDB. Instead of needing to call the IT guy for common questions, you could personally sort and filter yourself which can really increase the efficiency of operations in any given business.
